so I'm gonna little have one more
question and that's gonna be perception
sevens so how do you suggest people to
avoid unhealthy coping mechanisms and
search for the root of the cause without
coming across as confrontational so I'm
a little bit confused about what you
mean by coming across as confrontational
and I assume that I assume that what you
mean is you're trying to help someone
else because like I said like I don't
understand where the conflict is unless
you're trying to tell someone that I
think you're relying on an unhealthy
coping mechanism and you're not
addressing the root cause
so what I would say is that first like
once again meet them where they're at
right so if if someone is using an
unhealthy coping mechanism and not
addressing the root of the problem you
have to have them be willing to talk
about it so if we look at like my
interview with Anna today Anna at the
very end said this was something that I
was not comfortable talking about and
yet I talked about it so the question is
like how is it that we can create a
conversation where Anna knows that
there's something that she's scared to
talk about and she's still willing to
talk about it and I think the way that
you do that is by being non-judgmental
and not forcing them right so like if
someone let's say someone has a drinking
problem and the reason that they're
drinking is because they're going
through a divorce and you kind of tell
them hey man like I think you need to go
see a therapist and deal with the like
your divorce instead of drinking so much
they're gonna come back with a great big
screw you right so the way that you kind
of handle that is is you can say like
you start with being like really
non-judgmental and really open and if
they think that there's a there's like a
problem with their coping mechanism
start by asking them hey man like
sometimes I wonder if you drink too much
like what do you think about that is
that just me being a little bit like
judgmental or
you know like what do you think about
your drinking and you can just be like
kind of open about that and then see
what they say and if they say yeah man
my drinking is completely fine like I
don't think it's a problem so
first of all that Clues you in that it
is a problem because it seems like it's
a sore point but it also means that
they're not ready to talk about it right
so then you kind of pause and you say
like oh okay so it sounds like you feel
very strongly that your drinking is like
perfectly fine so my bad from bringing
it up
[Music]
you know is it like if I if I if I seem
if I can't shake the idea that I think
it's a problem is it okay if I bring it
up with you again and if you sort of say
things in that neutral tone like it's
very hard to people for people to say
like no so often times they're like yeah
like if you really think it's problem
sure but it's not a problem
like that's the response that you're
gonna get and even in that moment you
got a little in because you got
permission from them to bring it up
again and then you like approach them a
month later and then you're like hey so
I you know a couple weeks ago I asked
you about drinking and you know you said
it wasn't a problem but like last week
you kind of got blackout drunk and like
threw up all over your sofa like it's
hard for me to think that that's okay
period you're not asking a question
you're not asking to do anything you're
making an observation and period so this
is the other really neat technique you
guys need to understand if you want to
talk to someone about something
don't ask questions because if you ask
question they feel like they're under
attack what do you think about your
drinking do you think your drinking is a
problem like do you think maybe you
should be drinking less it's attacking
you're attacking people don't attack
silence plus statement statement plus
silence in that order I noticed that you
threw up all over your couch
period
like they're gonna say something like
they can't tolerate that vacuum or that
void so that's where that's what I'd say
like you know you have to start by sort
of talking to them and being open and
being non-judgmental non-confrontational
and so notice that I said nothing about
searching for the route because we're so
far from searching from the route
they're not ready yet
you have to first acknowledge that
they're using a coping mechanism and
that there is something deeper but
unless they're willing to meet you
halfway like talking about the deeper
problem doesn't matter if they don't
think that there's a problem like you're
not going to convince them
um
yes so I would also agree with other
people that like if you think that
someone has an unhealthy coping
mechanism or you feel like you have an
unhealthy coping mechanism that's a
great place to sort of start and think
about therapy